 Hi! I'm Dave from Boyinaband,. Psychological tests.... 'Hey Dave, hey Dave, have you ever heard of Myers-Briggs?'. 'Hey Dave, are you an INFP?'. 'Or perhaps an INFJ'. 'Or you're E- or even INFJ or even ESFP' 'Dave have you tried your...?, Hey Dave, have you ever tried the Myers-Briggs?'. 'Dave, what's your personality type?' Oh woah woah woah, calm down fellas.. Today we're gonna take a look at the Myers-briggs personality test, Basically it's one of these 'personality type quiz things,' but it's like one that businesses use. Test is taken by 2.5 million people a year, Arguably the most popular psychological, uh, kind of personality type tests. Cause a lot of you have been asking me to take it and I'll do it on one condition, Hear me out when I talk about the problems with this test,. Because a lot of people hold it in such high regard,. When perhaps there are some areas it's not so good There's four different letters... Extroverted or introverted, Judging or perceiving, Thinking or feeling, Categorize you on these four different things and that can kind of define your entire personality, So on different ends of the spectrum we've got here like. ISTJ... [goes on to read that^]. And on the other side, ENTJ... It'd be funny if it just like, said not responsible, insincere, un-analytical, stupid, stop it. All of the descriptions are positive so people want to say "Yes I am that thing it's accurate!" So uh the problems with it, 89 of the Fortune 100 companies so like the 100 richest companies in the world use this. To categorize their employees. [reading] Psychologists use a lot of other psychological tests from what I understand the Myers-Briggs is really inconsistent. [reading] Not a very scientifically useful thing That said, it's a lot of fun to find out your thing in the moment, so...! Lets finally take this bloody test. 16personalities.com 70 frickin million tests taken so far. 70 million 7 billion people. That's 1% of the world's population Has taken this test. Is that right?. That's crazy And you know it's legit, 'Cause they have cute graphics That make the website look nice Anyway,. [reading]. Okay let's start!. [reading]. Here we go!. I think I'm pretty forward in that respect, Like a couple of Youtuber parties and stuff If I see someone that I like, I will be the kind of person to go over and say "Hey I like your videos" And that kind of thing. And then they wouldn't know who I am. Yes, that happe-- That happens a hell of a lot to me. I think that's 'disagree', In general I get quite stressed and really struggle Like I did this video 'A.I will probably kill us all.' The day before releasing that I was just sitting there thinking:. ''Is this good enough?'' ''I don't know if I should release this.'' Just kind of like a perfectionist mindset maybe. Pretty similar to that one. Nah, I disagree with that. Nah, nah I do that a lot I do that all the time I'd say Like I'll try things I'm not quite comfortable with, Just to see how I feel after I've done them Like I'll release a video that has a title that's a bit more 'clickbait-y' than I normally would,. Just to see how I feel and see How other people feel about it, Generally I'm overthinking things like that as well. So it's really good to kinda push myself out of my comfort zone.. Heh, see, this one's a bit of a... If I answer this in the wrong way everyones going to think I'm an egoticistical ass. *clears throat* So like, If you look at the numbers on my videos it seems logical. To say I have some skills. Which are higher than other people Uhm, building an audience for instance. Like, just in a practical sense not in an egotistical one, But in terms of feeling, I never feel like I'm the best at anything. I think I covered that in the song 'I'm not dead' *I'm pretty good at like 20 different skill sets. at the expense of never being great at any one of them* I'm in air on the side of arrogance a bit, If I'm honest like I feel above average. And from what I understand that's a normal thing I think it was like 97% of university professors Thought they were above average teachers. ughh. God, each one of these is just tearing me *You are tearing me apart, Lisa!* Nah I think, I think being adaptable is more important,. Even though I really like being organized. Uhh maybe slightly Nowhere near as much as I would like. Okay, first of all I don't care whether I win a debate or not, I want to find out what the correct answer is, So therefore making sure no one gets upset is more important to me. I would totally agree with that Because winning a debate doesn't matter,. What matters is having the correct outcome from the debate. Whether or not I am the winning side, I might be incorrect. I think every youtuber has to do that to an extent. IT'S A REAL JOB I SWEAR! Like, I feel like a lot of my value is determined by my work as well so.... Uhh It's not too bad... Little bit of mess, at the moment from brushing my hair. And some food, It's not too bad. Ugh, again it's gonna be one of these Like slightly to one side Than maybe a little bit more practical. I'd agree with that, It takes a lot to upset me, Generally it has to be someone talking about something that I really agree with. uh like they really have to strike a nerve. YES! I have to be so methodical when it comes to traveling, Like where am I gonna be what time, what's the, like uhm.... There was one point where I was going to see a friend, And I took pictures of all of the blueprints of the train station, So I knew how to get from one place to the other Cause I get so frickin stressed when I'm traveling. uhm. I don't think so. I'm not like hugely empathetic but I'm not like super autistic And I don't mean that in the frickin 'internet insult-y' way. Just like, literally I don't think that I have trouble connecting to people like that. Nah. If I've got a bad mood I have to sleep it off. Damn right! I would much rather people got really hurt and then knew the truth,. And were able to make decisions based on fact, Otherwise that's going to lead to more hurt in the future. So I think by pressing 'disagree' there you're thinking "Long term I don't mind if this person gets hurt again and again and again... as long as I don't have to deal with it in the moment." Like that's how it comes across to me Perhaps I miss something. I don't think I rarely worry about it Like there are times I have to push myself,. To do videos that I wouldn't normally do Like when I made the Prince Ea video, I was really kind of anxious that I might be going too hard. But, like, I did my best to try and make it about the issue, Rather about the person,. So I kind of had to,. Push myself to, to make that call. Naturally, that's so true.. It's really frustrating. I feel like I'm kind of... Trying to think of a good metaphor..... .... Nope, no metaphors.. I don't really get jealous or envious, If I find some, Like a really successful youtuber or a musician, I'm really curious to see how they did it. And I want to find out like whats my equivalent, But I wouldn't say I'm jealous of them, I'm just fascinated by it.. [heavy Drum 'n' Bass and Overwatch game play]. I think being able to adapt to project is really important, But if you built a plan that allows you to adapt... ahhh. Nope. Yep if I'm walking,
If I'm doing anything I'm probably lost in thought. I'm lost in thought right now,. Often I'll be talking to someone and I'll realize. "Crap I haven't been paying attention to this person" for like 5 minutes!'' ''What were they saying?". I worry a bit about that kind of stuff. Heh, don't see myself being a parent, First of all that's an unlikely scenario. But, now I'm starting to think of like, Is there any scientific evidence As to whether it's easier to become kinder, Or easier to become smarter as an adult Because if it was easier to become kinder as an adult, Then it would make sense to make a child smart.. I think maybe a little. I'd rather have a fun-loving dumb kid than an intelligent ass.. I was the latter.. Nah, I do, I think if someone has a really good point I try to take it on board. Before I release a big video generally I'll ask a bunch of friends, like:. ''Is this good?'' ''What bit should I change?'' And stuff like that. What was the first YouTube event? I think it took like 3 or 4 years for me to go to a youtube event so, Maybe disagree there.. Yeah, I don't think that's my kind of thing if I'm honest. So basically this is the sociopath question, okay. That's why, isn't it like 20% of CEO's are sociopaths or something?. Okay it was psychopaths not sociopaths [reading]. If you are gonna be, If you're gonna be rich it pays to be a psychopath. [PewDiePie] I'm nervous, oh no, oh no, *chuckles* oh no!. For me that depends on the problem If it's a problem they likely can't solve Then I'll go for the support but otherwise I would definitely suggest solutions And help with solutions if possible. Considering the lengths I had to go to make myself stick a time table. Bugger off!. I can get frustrated But like that's probably the most common emotion That I get that's unstable. Come on just guess it's a cup Oh my god!. *I'm sick of saying I still don't have anything done*. Oh boy!. Results, here we go, here we go. ENTJ-T. I've gotta say, I feel good thinking about my self in that way So I can see why this is a successful personality test, So I'm a bit more thinking than feeling I'm surprised it is not way more thinking I struggle to know what I'm feeling *I'm still unsure of my emotional state* Okay, start reading.. [reading]. Oh Steve Jobs said that. Thanks for defining what dogma is, Steve Jobs People with this personality type Embody the gifts of charisma and confidence. Yay~! ...And project authority in a way. that draws crowds together behind a common goal... Apparently we have a common goal, what is it? I'm actually genuinely curious Leave it in the comments below However, uhh here we go, some negatives. ...Commanders are also characterized by an often Ruthless level of rationality... perhaps it is best they only make up 3% of the population. So that's, that's quite a rare type then. I wonder what the rarest type is. Oh wow, down here is says 1.8% That's freakin rare That's interesting, so I'm a super rare type. Supposedly That makes make feel good about myself! I dunno why. [reading]. Nice mustache This quality makes people with the commander personality type brilliant entrepreneurs. [reading]. Why bastard?. *He's the commander, we turned to,. when the night was darkest.*. [reading]. :thinking:. hm. Commanders will do well to remember that they Absolutely depend on having a functioning team. Not just to achieve their goals But for their validation and feedback as well Something commanders are, Curiously, very sensitive to. Who isn't sensitive to validation?. Everyone likes to get their Facebook posts liked, Everyone wants to have people double tapping on their Instagram Follow me on Instagram! Commanders you may know Aww, Steve Jobs, got a lot of respect for his business ethic. 'Steve Jobs pissed off moments' Come on, let's, Let's see where that commander personality type comes out. [Steve Jobs] What's that?. I did slide it and let go,. Not turning on, here. [throws the camera]. Okay. We'll let an expert to see if he can turn it on Oh snap! That passive agression though. [Jobs] Our networks in here are always unpredictable, so They are slow today You know, you could help me out, If you're on Wi-Fi, can you just get off?!. That's just funny not pissed off. Gordon Ramsay. When someone has best insults As like, one of the top things I'm probably a little insensitive so that's fair Okay, so apparently... [Ramsay] Listen, listen, listen, listen, Fuck off, fuck off, fuck off, fuck off GET OUT! Just like me!*sarcasm*. Harrison Ford [Degeneres] May we see that? [Ford] What? [Degeneres] That picture of you. [Ford] Ew. *Dave laughs* [Degeneres] What's your favourite swear word?. [Ford] *beep* *crowd laughs* I feel like Harrison Ford reminds me of my dad, Very to the point Slightly less punny than my dad though. oh Francis J Underwood!. Happy with that.. [Underwood] And the butchery begins.. I don't wanna keep reading off all this Freakin complimentary crap It just, it just feels like I'm boosting my ego constantly, Alright let's have a look at the conclusion [reading]. heh [reading]. Alright so this will be where they charge me a bunch of crap [reading]. Sigh, looks like an E-book. $32. frikin' 99. Couldn't I just Google ENTJ e-book? And see what comes up Well there you have it. So apparently. I am ENTJ that was fun, I'll put a link in the description if you want to take a test yourself But remember take it with one of these,
[Take it with a grain of salt - not seriously]. That's a lot of salt, so *cough*