 Hey, what is going on, guys?. One of the most common
questions I get asked about myself is what is my MBTI,. Meyers Briggs personality type? I get this question all
the time, and, today, I thought I would just
answer it by actually going through the most popular personality test on the internet, the
16personalities.com test. If you Google personality
test, I believe it is the first thing that comes
up, personality test.. Yes, first thing that comes up. We're gonna take this test, and I'm going to show you my score. Once we get whatever my
type is, we'll look through some of the traits that that type contains and then compare it to some
of the other traits out there, because there are, it looks like, 16 different personality
types, each a combination of the four different letters here. Now, this is mainly
based on the Myers Briggs Personality Type Indicator acronym here, but I believe that the
16 personalities test, looking through their Theory page here,. uses a little bit different philosophy behind their questions, and
there's lots of different types. of tests that use the MBTI
acronyms, so it's important to realize that people who tell you, "Hey, I'm an IM, INFTP
or ENTJ or an ENFJ,". if they say that, they might
have taken a different test than the one you take, and it might mean something different all together. The other thing that I wanna
mention before I go into this is that personality tests in
general, this one and others, are merely mental models
that can be useful for figuring out what kind
of personality you might have and what things you might
be better at than others, but I don't think that
you should use these. to define yourself entirely. In fact, there's a really
good quote from an article. here on Quora called What
is the current thinking about Myers Briggs that
I really liked here in this fourth paragraph, I think it is.. In this sense, it can be a good framework for developing an intuition
about one's own uniqueness and how one cannot use oneself as a model to explain all other human beings. That's the one quote
there that I really love. You can use these tests
to remind yourself that the way you view the world is
not the way that other people view the world, and
things that work for you. may not work for other
people, but I don't want you to use these kind of tests
to try to define yourself and especially limit the choices you make or make decisions about
what you maybe shouldn't try to do, because you fit into a
certain personality archetype. With all that being said, we
are just going to get into the quiz here. You find it difficult to introduce
yourself to other people.. No.. It has become much, much
easier in recent years, and I think this actually
highlights something right away. If I were to take this
test; in fact, I did take this very test about
five years ago, I think.. This was more on the middle or agree side, because I was a little bit more shy, and now it's not hard at all. You try to respond to your
emails as soon as possible. and cannot stand a messy inbox. Oh, boy. Can we use wishful
thinking here as an answer?. You have to answer honestly even if you don't like the answer. Okay, I have seen friends of mine. I've seen their inboxes, and
I sometimes see like 10,000 unread emails in there. I am not nearly that bad. However, I am not super good at responding. to emails very quickly. Let's go with a soft agree,
because I do try to do it, and I do not like a messy inbox. I'm just not good at it,
and I'm not one of those. inbox zero practitioners,
so I really don't think I could put myself over
here on the strong agree. You feel superior to other people. I don't even know how to answer that. I definitely feel superior to
other people in certain areas, but I am very confident
in my skill set, but, in terms of just general,
I mean, I don't know. I realize that it's very
easy to compare yourself to a reference that you may
have, but you may not have a reference somewhere else,
so I really don't know. I feel like the type of
work I do lends itself to the development of an ego
that I try to keep in check. I'm gonna go ahead, and I'm
gonna put that as neutral.. I'm not really sure, to be honest. Being organized is more important to you than being adaptable. No, no, no, no. No, not at all. I love being organized, absolutely. Don't get me wrong, but I
think the skill of adaptability is actually a lot more
important than being organized. Winning a debate matters
less to you than making sure no one gets upset. Now, this is an interesting question.. I think five years ago I
would've put that, yes, winning a debate matters more,
because I was more interested in objective truth and
finding the right answer. At this point, I think it
depends, because, like, with my relationship with my girlfriend, I often don't care if I
win a debate as many times as I may have used to, because
I don't want her to be upset. These are tough questions,
because the context matters, and I would rather be wrong
than win on an argument that doesn't work, so
this is kind of tough. Maybe, putting aside the
context of my relationship with my girlfriend on
debates that don't matter, in general, I think that coming
to the truth of the matter does matter more than making
sure no one gets upset. Otherwise, that's avoidance
of conflict for no reason. We will go with a middle agree here.. You don't mind being at
the center of attention. Agree. I do not mind that. You consider yourself more
practical than creative. I think that I'm more
creative than practical, and I suppose my reasoning
for this would be that I have a lot of friends who do Youtube. and do entrepreneurial things,
and a lot of those friends are more willing to do
things that they know are going to be profitable
with less of an investment in the creative aspects
whereas you guys know I put out a video once a week, if that,. because I'm so into making sure that my videos have something
creative and new and different in them every single time.. I think I'm more creative than practical. We'll go with that one. People can rarely upset you. That is true. I don't really get upset almost ever. It is often difficult for you to relate to other people's feelings. I'm actually gonna go
to disagree on this one. It's gonna be a soft disagree. When I took this test a few years ago,. probably five years ago at this point, I know that I was over
here on the agree side. I have had trouble in the past empathizing. with other people's feelings, because I'm a very solution-minded person. When there's a problem,
at least in my mind, the first thing to do is to solve it, but I think this is another good example. of how your personality can actually shift through conscious effort,
because I have worked. to become more empathetic with my friends and with people in general,
and I think that work has actually contributed to me becoming more naturally empathetic. We're gonna go with a soft disagree there. In a discussion, truth
should be more important than people's sensitivities.. This is another one of
those questions where I would have been like
hard yes, and I'm not sure, 'cause context matters so much. How much does the truth matter? That's the real question
to be answered here. I think, once again, I'm
still on the side of agree, but it's not as hard of an agree anymore. I try to think about the context now.. Being able to develop
a plan and stick to it is the most important
part of every project. I have to go back to that
adaptability question. Dwight Eisenhower once said
that planning is everything, but plans are nothing, and I
absolutely agree with that. We often have to change
plans quickly and pivot.. I think that being able to
develop a plan is very important, but the most important part
of every project, I think, is adaptability and communication.. We'll go with disagree. If someone does not respond
to your email quickly, you start worrying if
you said something wrong. Yes, I do, and I know this is irrational. I know this is stupid,
because I have had people that. I haven't responded to in
weeks, and it is no fault of their own. It's just my poor organization
or prioritizing other things, and I tell myself that
every time I send an email, and I don't get a response quickly. I tell myself, "They're just busy". You know, they're probably
doing something else. Their email's not a
priority, but there's always this little thing in the
back of my mind that's like, "You probably said something wrong," or, "You probably worded something,"
or, "You put a period "on some sentence and
made it sound too terse". Yeah, we'll go with that. You do not let other people
influence your actions. I feel like, if you
answer agree on this one, you're a little bit self-delusional. I think we all have influences
even if they're subconscious. I think you have to disagree a little bit. The question is to what degree. I definitely let people
influence my actions. That's absolutely true. I have discussions with
people that I trust and people that I look up to,
and they often will change my opinion on something
that I was going to do. I do think that there is a
certain degree of principle that I hold myself to, and
there's a certain degree of confidence in my
ability to judge where I am and what the best course of action is, so we'll go with a soft disagree here. Your emotions control you
more than you control them. That is a disagree absolutely. I like to think I'm in
control of my emotions quite a bit.. Like I said, I don't really
get angry very often, and I don't let my moods swing that much. You would rather improvise
than spend time coming up with a detailed plan. There's the key question,
rather, the keyword here, rather. Would I rather improvise
or spend time coming up with a detailed plan? I like doing both, to be honest. I think that where a lot
of my great work comes. through improvisation, like I said here, I think my personality
type actually leads me to try to plan things out in advance more, and then I just end up
improvising within the constraints of that plan if that makes any sense. You often contemplate the
reasons for human existence. Yes, yes I do. Logic is usually more important than heart when it comes to making
important decisions. I'm gonna go with agree there. I did say that I do try
to take people's emotions into account more often now,
but I do still believe that logic trumps my own emotions when it comes to making
important decisions. Keeping your options
open is more important than having a to-do list. This all comes back to that
improvisation thing, right? I'm gonna go with disagree here, though, because I think that
keeping your options open actually leads us to inaction many times. When we just have too many
options, we have no constraints to really put us down a specific path. I think, when we create constraints, we actually give ourselves the freedom. to operate and make
more impactful decisions within those constraints. I like having a to-do
list and then being able to adapt it if I have to. If your friend is sad about
something, you are more likely to offer emotional
support than suggest ways. to deal with the problem. This is one of those things.. Five years ago, I would
have been hard disagree. I have worked very hard to make myself give emotional support, but my gut answer, the thing my brain
immediately jumps to whenever a friend has a problem, is to
suggest a way to deal with it, and then I have to pause,
stop myself, and decide to purposely give that
emotional support first and wait to suggest a
solution until they ask.. All right, you rarely feel insecure. Agree. I am not an insecure person. You think that everyone's
views should be respected regardless of whether they
are supported by facts or not. Disagree. Your right to express
your view, I respect that with certain exceptions,
but the view itself does not deserve respect if
it is not supported by facts. All right, you feel more
energetic after spending time with a group of people. I actually don't. I have an introvert battery that drains when I'm in a group of people. You feel very anxious
in stressful situations. Definitely disagree here. When I'm in a stressful situation,. I actually feel very energized. Stress is a very good thing for me, at least if it's not chronic.. You often take initiative
in social situations. Yes, I do, and this is something that has served me very well. Again, when I had taken
this test a few years ago, the answer was probably no. I wasn't the person to plan things. I wasn't the person to be
the leader in that area of my life, but, now, I've learned that you kind of have to be if
you want things to happen. I do try to do that. All right, we are about
to get the results, and I actually do not know
what I'm going to get. Let's just click it and see. All right. ENTJ. That is what I got last time,
and there's a -A on there. We'll see what that actually means. I'm not exactly sure
what the A means here.. Let's go through it. All right, 83% extroverted. That is a big difference
from what I would have gotten five years ago. I think last time I got ENTJ, but I was like 52% extroverted. Let's see here. I have 56% intuitive
energy versus observant. My nature is more thinking
than feeling, but, again, my thinking nature was actually
much higher in the past. It has balanced out over time. Tactics: this trait reflects
our approach to work,. planning, and decision-making. I'm more judging than prospecting. We'll see what that
means, and then identity. This trait underpins all others
showing how confident we are in our abilities and decisions. I'm 87% assertive and 13% turbulent. Let's see what all this stuff means. All right, the ENTJ personality type, and keep in mind, guys,
there are 16 different kinds. It looks like I am here, the Commander, within the Analysts category. We also have Diplomats,
Sentinels, and Explorers.. We have a Steve Jobs quote. That's pretty cool. Commanders are natural-born leaders. People with this personality
type embody the gifts of charisma and confidence
and project authority. in a way that draws crowds
together behind a common goal. However, Commanders are also characterized by an often ruthless level of rationality. using their drive,
determination, and sharp minds to achieve whatever end
they've set for themselves. Perhaps, it is best that they make up only 3% of the population. Oh, I'm pretty rare, I guess. Lest they overwhelm the
more timid and sensitive personality types that make up much of the rest of the world. We have Commanders to thank
for many of the businesses and institutions we take
for granted every day. I'm interested in the
strengths and weaknesses. Let's look at that real quick. Commanders are efficient, they're
energetic, self-confident, strong-willed, strategic thinkers, and charismatic and inspiring.. Let's hear Commander weaknesses. I'm actually more interested in these, because I feel like these are interesting, but they often are ego-stroking
a little bit, maybe. I wanna see what my weaknesses are here: stubborn and dominant. Sometimes all this
confidence and will power. can go too far, and
Commanders are all too capable of digging in their heels,
trying to win every single debate and pushing their vision and theirs alone.. This was absolutely me for a long time. In fact, in high school, I
had a girl break up with me, actually, for this very reason. It's because I basically refused to give ground on arguments. I would let my logical
mind just go too far and just run amuck without thinking about the other person's feelings, and that kinda broke that relationship up. I've learned to not let that part of me dominate my thinking. Intolerant: it's my way or the highway. Okay, people with the
Commander personality type. are notoriously unsupportive
of any idea that distracts from the primary goals and even more so of ideas based on
emotional considerations. I think this is something
that I also struggled with. in the past, but it's another thing that I'm trying to work on. All right, impatient. Some people need more
time to think than others, an intolerable delay to
quick-thinking Commanders. They may misinterpret
contemplation as stupidity or disinterest in their haste. I definitely have this problem. I have noticed it in
many different instances where I have made my
decision very quickly, and, when somebody else
doesn't make their decision,. it kind of annoys me. It's important to realize
these things, I think. Arrogant: Commander personalities
respect quick thoughts and firm convictions, their own qualities, and look down on those who don't match up. Okay, that's something
I have to work out with. Poor handling of emotions:
all of this bluster. alongside the assumed
supremacy of rationalism makes Commanders distant from
their own emotional expression and sometimes downright
scornful of others, and, lastly, cold and
ruthless: their obsession. with efficiency and unwavering belief in the merits of rationalism,
especially professionally, makes Commanders incredibly insensitive in pursuing their goals,
dismissing personal circumstances, sensitivities, and preferences
as irrational and irrelevant. You know, I'm reading the
Steve Jobs biography right now, or I'm listening to it on Audible, and this is like him to a tee absolutely. This is a good indication
of why these tests are not always completely accurate. I look at these, and I see
some of these weaknesses in myself, but, this
cold and ruthless one, I actually don't think
this describes me at all, 'cause I work with a team of
nine people at this point, and, whenever they have
a personal circumstance that makes it so their
work has to take a backseat to their personal life, or they
have to take some time off, there's never even an initial
thought in my head that, oh, they're in the way of
my overall goal and vision. Again, these are not
always completely accurate. Let's look at career paths, and, obviously, this
video's gonna get very long if we go through all of them, but I'm very curious about this one. It is in the world of careers
that Commanders' boldness and drive are truly at their best. No other personality type is
better suited than Commanders to be the respected leader
of an organization or team, and no other personality
type enjoy it quite so much. This is interesting to read now. I'm reading a book right
now called Good to Great. by Jim Collins, and, in that
book, he did a ton of research on companies that essentially
went from good or mediocre to having great results over
a certain period of time, and what they found is that
one of the common traits between all of these
good to great companies is that they had a leader who
was a little bit more quiet, a little bit more reserved, didn't have that bold, charismatic personality. They ended up making
better long-term leaders, because they were more willing
to accept the harsh truth of all the environmental
factors and threats facing the business, and
they were less intimidating. to their employees, and
they would take criticism, and they would take ideas more seriously from their subordinates
than somebody who maybe has a Commander personality like this. This is something that I
have thought about and tried. to keep front of mind in my own business. I do like being a leader,
but I also realize that it's possible that this
Commander personality, which I think does describe
me to a good degree, could be a weakness within my career and within the success
of my business here. There's all kinds of
stuff on here, but, yeah,. I'm an ENTJ. Hopefully, that answers
the question for you guys, and I would be curious to
see which personality type that you guys end up falling into. It's a pretty quick quiz. It's pretty fun to go through. Let me know down in the
comments which one of these you fall into, and I
would be curious to know, as you're going through these descriptions of your personality type and going through these different exploration,
parenthood, friendships, romantic relationships,
what do you think this test gets rights, and what
do you think gets wrong. I would be interested for you
to scrutinize the test itself against your own beliefs of who you are and see if it actually is
accurate in all those dimensions. One thing that I do want
to mention before I go: if you are like me, you're
probably always looking for new Youtube channels and new things to sink your teeth into
and learn new stuff. I know I'm like that. I'm discovering new channels all the time, and, because of that, I thought
that I should start sharing some of those channels on this channel,. maybe like once a month
or something just to share what I'm watching with you guys.. I wanna share a channel called Wisecrack. I got to hang out with
these guys at VidCon. They are freaking awesome, and
they do all kinds of videos on their channel, but
I think that the main, overarching theme is they
combine science and philosophy and all kinds of educational
content with books and movies and video games
and all kinds of stuff that we are probably, usually
more interested in than all of the academic stuff.. They make education fun in a way that I really, really click with, and I've actually been watching Wisecrack for a really long time, because
they started with a series called Thug Notes, which
does literary analysis of tons of different books,
and I absolutely love it, but they have tons of
other videos as well, including a really cool
recent video on the philosophy of Death Note which is
one of my favorite anime. as well as a Thug Notes
on Ready Player One, which is one of my favorite
recent fiction books. I'll have a couple of
their videos linked up in the end card here as well as in the description down below.. Definitely go check
them out, and subscribe if you like their stuff. If you have channels
that I haven't found yet that you think I should
check out, also leave those in the comments down below. Anyway, guys, thanks for watching, and I will see you in next week's video.