 Hi, I'm kchoi! Welcome back to my channel. It has been five months since I have sat down to film a YouTube video That might be the longest streak in a really long time. The past three
videos I uploaded were all from my Paris trip back in January so yeah it has been
a while but let's not dwell on the past we're here today to film a video
and I'm gonna do a Q&A I posted on my Instagram story asking you all to ask
questions about anything really most of them were about consulting some about
education and travel so I'm gonna try to answer as many as I can and after this
video I have lots of ideas for videos in the future about consulting I know
that's what a lot of people want to hear about so don't worry I am planning and
writing all of that content and super excited to finally make it so if you
want to be updated on those videos please do hit that subscribe button and
the notification bell to get post notifications I would really appreciate
it and let's just begin I typed up those. questions from Instagram so that I could
sort them by topic and we're gonna start with consulting / work How difficult is it to get into consulting?   It depends on the company and
how competitive that is it depends on what you studied beforehand and more
importantly what your work experience was so it really is a range and it also
depends you know are you an independent consultant are you gonna work at a firm
there's so many factors Do you need a really high GPA to get into consulting?
Again that depends it doesn't hurt and I think especially for some of those
bigger firms a high GPA is kind of a standard requirement but of course I
think all companies take the full. picture into account. Do you have a lot of
pressure doing this job are people competitive? I would say there's a fair
amount of pressure there's pressure from the client there's pressure internally
if you're leading a project making sure you're leading the team well being clear
with everything making sure you're not screwing anybody over in terms of people
being competitive at least where I work I don't feel that it's competitive I
feel that everybody supports each other I think in other firms I know I've heard
you know if you want to get on a project you sort of need to bid for it or apply
for it so in that case it might be competitive there. How to enter
consulting as a graduate student? Summer internships, consulting club at your
University, if you're in the UK, graduate. schemes are a big thing that people will
apply to if they're coming straight from school whether it's straight from
undergrad or from post-grad. On a related note, to be a consultant do you need at
least a master's degree? no I would say you wouldn't need a master's degree but
lots of consultants do end up getting their MBA and then go back into
consulting or some people might have worked in a different industry, gotten
their MBA, and then entered consulting that way but it's not a requirement.
How much international travel do you do in your job? I haven't been on any
international projects except for one in Canada so I've done some travel to
Canada but lots of my co-workers have gone to places in Europe in Asia Middle
East yeah so it just kind of depends on. what project you get put on. Do you ever
get tired of traveling for your job? I'm not tired yet I think definitely people
who have a family or whose family lives near them might find it more difficult.
For me I can kind of live pretty. independently at this point so I'm not
too tired of it yet and the travel perks and points and miles and things like
that make it worth it for now. Do you enjoy your work? I love my work I'm a
change management consultant and we. focus more on the people side of change
I don't want to go into too much detail because I think I will do a video about
what change management is so stick around for that
What do you wear for client meetings? this depends on the client some of them
are a bit more formal so I'll wear slacks and a button-down shirt or
something other ones are very casual so I'll literally wear jeans and a t-shirt.
Any tips for a fellow Cal English major hoping to get into consulting? first of
all, go bears, second of all there's a few other questions related from other
people so how do I get into consulting with a digital marketing background?
I majored in mass communication can I. start a career in consulting? will I get
accepted into consulting when I don't major in business or econ? Yes it is
possible I majored in English I worked in public relations there's people at my
company who have backgrounds in the sciences it really is about painting the
story of you know why this next step is right for you. I actually have a video on
my channel called how to change careers and I talk about
how I went through the process of switching from public relations to
consulting so do take a look at that if you are concerned about getting into
consulting with a different background Do you have a vision for your future self
that's career related? I would love to work with more nonprofits and work more
in the social impact space one of my colleagues and I are actually trying to
figure out how we can make that more part of our business model at the
company we work at. I got several questions about motivation and managing stress so the first question is how do you keep yourself motivated? to be honest
I'm a very competitive person so in terms of motivation when I see other
people doing things and doing cool stuff. that inspires me to get my shit together
however it's never good to compare yourself to other people but I try to
keep it in check. in terms of balancing things I honestly don't think I'm so
good at that right now. for me it's kind of easy because I like don't have any
friends where I live and then the other related question is more about how do
you manage stress or deal with pressure I feel like I've done a lot of work on
myself to manage stress in general I'm a. pretty high-strung anxious person a lot
of people think the opposite about me but that being said I've made a really
conscious effort not to let stress get the best of me. it's little
things that add up like taking time to take care of yourself, prioritizing the
things you have to do so you don't feel overwhelmed by like an entire list of
things but you can just focus on the top two or three that need to get done, and
then just you know talk to people about. it and don't just bottle it in not a
good idea. is a master's degree worth it? watch this Q&A video. I'm also an English
major switching to a master's in management
any advice for admission? use your writing skills to write a kick-ass
personal statement. any tips for beginners in traveling? download airline
apps and hotel apps keep your clear. pouch of liquids at the top of your bag
so it's easy to take out and don't feel pressured to cram too much into a trip I
think if you're visiting someplace for a first time it can be very tempting to
try to do lots and lots of things but. take a step back and slow down sometimes
how can I overcome my anxiety when flying? I want to travel the world. I
think it's just that let your desire to travel the world be more powerful than
your fear of flying and also flying is safer than riding a car so think about
that. What is a travel / airport hack? take an empty water bottle through
security so that you can fill it up like. a Starbucks at the terminal and not have
to pay five dollars for a bottle of water something like that. least-favorite
American Airport? maybe like Houston or. Atlanta they're like kind of spread out.
Favorite books during travels / book recommendations? I can probably do a
whole video of book recommendations or books I've read this year right now what
I'm reading is this book called make time: how to focus on what matters
everyday I just started maybe can help answer some of those questions you all
had about balancing work and personal life and all of that. next travel
destination? next travel destination for pleasure will be Seattle I'll be going
there in just about a month. battery is running low and we're in the homestretch
of some miscellaneous questions let's. see how fast I can answer these. warriors
or Lakers? Lakers. what's your current favorite quote? this one it means
everything happens for a reason. Do you still keep in touch with and/or live
near your college friends? I sort of live near some of them who live on the East
Coast I definitely keep in touch with my
college roommates with our chat group and all of that. what's your favorite
Korean food? doenjang jjigae or fermented soy bean soup
planning on going plant-based vegetarian vegan? I don't know if I will
ever go fully vegetarian or vegan. when I. cook for myself I usually cook
vegetarian or plant-based when I go out to eat it just kind of depends I think
when you travel for work it can be hard to keep a strict diet so no plans as of
now but I do still try to be mostly vegetarian. do you miss London? all the
time. I think you can see here that's a little vintage Tube map of London that I
look at to remind me of my time there. and last question when are you coming
back to London? Well wouldn't it be great if I was announcing
that I was coming back to London but I'm. not. I have no idea when
I'm coming back to London I hope it's sometime soon I hope I get put on a
project that's in London that would be awesome but as of now no idea what I
will visit London again I feel like when I do go I want to go for a sort of an
extended period of time like at least two weeks just to be able to you know
see enough people and do enough things so we'll see. alright those are the
questions thank you so much for watching I hope this was informative especially
some of the questions about consulting I'm definitely going to be making more
videos on that topic and more videos about travel, career all of that. let me
know in the comments what other videos you'd like to see because I am feeling
myself on this roll and I just want to get lots of ideas and get started. thank
you so much for watching, thanks for sticking around even though I haven't
uploaded in a couple of months, thanks for subscribing even though I haven't
uploaded in a couple of months I really appreciate it and can't wait to start
making videos regularly again alright I'll see you in the next one bye